MVP e-commerce, Shopify template, UI/UX improvement, user base, sweepstakes, digital goods, checkout functionality, audience demographics, conversion rate, backend systems, email distribution, user experience, front-end development, project timeline, action items.
Speakers
Owen (77%), Christopher (23%)
Hey, Owen, can you hear me? I can't hear you. I think you might be well, you're not on mute, but I don't hear you.
Hey, yes, I can hear you now. It's a little bit choppy, but I can hear you. We can work with it.
All right, let me. Let me know if it gets better. I've had some, had some network issues all day. So okay, cool. Now, it's perfect. Sweet, awesome. Well, great to meet you. Thanks for reaching out around the project we posted.
Yeah, no. So it looks really, really interesting. I would love to hear more about what your goals are, but, yeah, it looks, looks super interesting. Would you like to start off? Or would you like me to, yeah, I can,
I can actually take it through. Just give you more of the scope. It's, it's definitely, just give you the background. So work for publishers Clearinghouse, the actual like, they're a very old US brand that do sweepstakes. Part of the new team that took over took them over, like about four months ago. Now we're beginning to do a bunch of MVP tests around e commerce rewards, club type pieces. And so what we're what we're really trying to do in particular, here is a very quick MVP e comm site to test against our user base. So the point is, it's very much, and I'll show you some stuff. I'll share my screen. It's very much a honestly quick and dirty MVP on a Shopify template for audience. But there are, there's a direction that we are going a longer term around this. So why I say that is it's don't necessarily want to go through a massive figma exercise and a planning exercise right this minute, that is absolutely where we will go, and we're looking for expertise to help us with that. So there is long term work, etc there, but it's also there are some some things and so publishers, Clearinghouse, we have about 40 people. We do have designers with very little experience in modern web design, in Shopify and some other pieces as well. Let me, let me share screen. Okay, and so, can you see my screen? Able to so
 this is like, pch.com, don't worry about it. It's more just for setting the scene in the context. I don't think Have you heard of publishers clearing houses? Yeah, crazy. Old brand in the United States been around since 1953 they used to do, used to set like mail order catalogs to people you would basically enter free sweepstakes to win a million dollars, etc. They scale up pretty aggressively, up until they were just they'd Super Bowl ads. And actually, they're a pretty big online business. They shifted towards being an ad based business in 2020 they went bankrupt earlier this year, and the company I want acquired pch in officially in July of this year, and we still maintain and we have some of their team work on these things now, we're dipping our toe back into E commerce, and we've put together a Very simple Shopify template, and we're beginning to look for folks to really gage expertise of folks out there, and also build out a build out this MVP, so very
 simple site that we have, and in particular for yourself, looking for you to come in here and help us work on a few different pieces. You know, there are some, some particular points pieces in here, in terms of checkout and cart functionality that we want to get a professional to look at with something very much off the shelf. And so, like, particularly, what I'm looking for the next, you know, few days with the gig I posted is somebody helped me tidy this up, do a pop out cart, generally, give some advice and esthetics, where we want to go if this MVP is successful. And I can just give an example, this is another company. Can be called Van life. They're another sweepstakes company, and it's very much a bit more of an interactive site as well. So you've got the various modules, things like setting up digital goods that can be purchased.
 We've got our own back end, etc, but we want somebody very good from a front end development side that can help us with that. And then, very specifically, this may seem very simple, but somebody who is has a lot of experience with with some of the standard features from a Shopify side. So like, yeah, we'll click add to cart. Much cleaner UI, pop out so and I think that where we're ours, we're talking to a lot of different folks, and we get, you know, various varying levels of expertise. And so that's why I say this is a bit of a test as well, to see who's out there that we can, you know, work work on longer term projects with
that makes a lot of sense. So you did mention UI. UX is a goal. You like to clean things up. But what, what is this? What is a successful project look like for you? Is it? Is it more conversions? Is it a cleaner UI, what's the what's the end goal?
Very much cleaner. Cleaner on this cleaner more immersive, a cleaner UI, effectively, than what we we currently have. And then if that, if that does well, starting to build into the same experience, more the these giveaways, these other, these other pieces of functionality, seems
pretty straightforward. I imagine you're using a template for this.
Yeah, this one's a super basic template. And so, you know, again, I'll talk about the MVP. We will likely so we're going to push this against our audience. We have a pretty massive audience, great way of reaching them, and if we get a lot of conversions. And so if we're seeing like people will have no problem getting a lot of traffic to the site based off who we are. But if we're seeing a height, a good conversion rate, a good checkout rate, etc, we actually would probably go and rip it up and just go for a full rebuild from that side. Get a more you get a proper build, essentially.
Okay, sounds good? Okay, I think I have the general idea. I do have a list of questions for you. Yeah, better use of the time right now could just be to go in the high just cover high level overview of things that can send you a list of questions, such as your timeline, who your users are. It's just 10 questions should take you, yeah, minutes
to Well, I could, we can go through some of those right now, if that works or can do as a follow up?
Sure, maybe, if we have enough time. But before I jump in, just quick intro, it's it helps about who I am and how who this person is you're speaking to. I suppose. I've been a software developer and designer for over a decade, worked at different startups, some of them you may have heard of, called Coinbase. Is one of them help different startups with their early products. Some of them have become unicorns. Have gone on to raise total last I checked over a billion.
Did you work with parallel? I think I might have seen that. I did, yeah, Koji, yeah.
I was the lead engineer. First lead engineer hired a parallel
we were at the, that's the crypto the game, the crypto game, where I was at the, I was at, I ever had another company in the space called Finnegans, and we were at the parallel championships in March in Vegas, huh? Yeah, Koji is, yeah, he's, he was one of the leads, or he's that. So the team, we're building an AI game, and obviously doing the main card card game as well. Yeah, very small. I saw a lot of the crypto background. I loved
it, yeah, but yeah, very familiar with the startup world. Started off with back end, then front end, and became a UX lead. So also very comfortable across the entire tech stack. But okay, enough about my spiel. So I already asked you the first question, what's the success look like? You said, a cleaner UI and UX. Who's your primary customer, who's going to be using this application?
So it's, this, is it? This is kind of crazy. So it's, it's, it's Middle America, 60 to 80. Yeah. So it's we get, we get about 220,200 50,000 people every day on this part of the website, sweepstakes. Okay, and then we've, we've, we've mobile apps that get about like 80, 90,000 it's kind of crazy. But so we get those folks. So yeah, you get the like, we have ADA stuff. I'm not saying that's the requirements, but it's very much like simple, you know, intuitive. A lot of folks are on web, as opposed to mobile web. We get about like 62 thirds of our traffic is actually web, as opposed to mobile web. And then our mobile web, it's pretty much all tablet, you know? So it's big form factor. Yeah, it's but they're savvy. I mean, you know these folks, they they're very good at navigating. We've all various
 games and like products. And so they're very good at navigating them. And so they also this audience, really, prior to actually part of covid Really, they are very used to like and again, if you look at Google publishers Clearinghouse, you'll get a lot of background. They will, all these folks will, they used to actually convert off emails. So you'd send an email and say, Hey, like, buy this vacuum cleaner, and you get entered into, you know, we're doing this. This is a lotto type draw in November, but people will come every day and put entries in. And so what they would do previously is we'd send an email to say, buy this vacuum cleaner, and you'll also get, you know, you buy the vacuum cleaner, but you'll also get, you know, 500 entries or whatever into that prize. And so that's how we get a lot of traffic. We have a lot of other prizes. So that's like the main one, there's like, $10,000 a week. There's 50 grand
 prizes. There's $100 prizes. So our users basically will anything that says, hey, you go here, you win a prize. They will go there. But they traditionally have done this via e commerce and purchasing things and so, yeah, so you kind of see, we're like, okay, let's just throw out some basic merch. Let's see what the feedback is like. Essentially adds more sweet, add sweepstakes to it, then on top of it, and then, if that looks solid, then like, hey, like, build proper infrastructure. Can we go back to that business, right?
Got it. So you buy merch and you Yeah, benefit these.
And so this, this company, is a, you know, there, there's a few others like that. And so they draw people in, you know, when they're very niche, they're different audience to us that's kind of like younger Americans and who wants to travel around kind of eco you know, your folks who I don't know how to describe it environmentally conscious, I think, is how they describe their audience. And so from a user experience, and we're not doing this straight away, but this guides of where we would go. So you can come in and basically you buy membership to a club, and the club gives you, this is a digital good, and the club gives you, basically a number of benefits. It gives you entries into the giveaways. So like they're doing, I think, a sprinter van, an old VW, for example. And then you also get things like you get discounts on some of the merchandise. And actually, that's a legal requirement. You
 can't just sell entries into a sweepstake. You have to offer other benefits as part of it. And so they will then do one off products, not just the membership, but also buying so like this $40 t shirt. You go in and again, this is, like some of the UI stuff. I love the way they do it. You'll convert from that, or go in and choose it. And so you buy the t shirt. But you also get 40 entries into a specific, you know, giveaway. So maybe get a sense of what we're trying to, like, test, okay, let's just test the merch. Get that going. Make that feel good. First, add some sweepstakes as a as a phase two, and we have a lot of the backend stuff. So we have drawing engines so we can take entries and put them into a drawing engine, give it away fairly, etc. We have a whole email system, like, we use Marigold, you know, we email, you know, about 1 million
 unique people every day. But so this terms of distribution, this will go in and some phased emails and say, hey, check out the new pch shopping, bison merch, that would be phase one. Let's see what that looks like. Phase two is like, unless it's broken down or we're having some other issues. It's like, okay, buy merch and get entry into sweepstakes. And then let's see how that works. Let's see how many of our audience are actually purchasing regularly. So yeah,
so there's also data collection and analysis and back end, but that's a separate issue.
Yeah, that's separate. So, yeah, we're, yeah, exactly. And like, we're even, if we do a full rebuild, we're probably, like, even from an email perspective, we'll use Klaviyo Baremetrics. Is what we're looking at from an E comm side, yeah, from a bi side. So, yeah, okay,
that makes sense. Thank you. So, do you have some assets in place? Content, copy images?
Yep, yes. So if I go to So, we pretty okay on like this image is from. It's a new AI tool. We do have a creative team, and so we will eventually change this out. But this one, actually, I think, fits. It's pretty solid. One of our designers did take just a quick you know, did go through this this week. So our font is set our logo, etc, and then our color scheme is pretty set from this size. But again, it's, it's like, hey, is there any recommendations?
 Part of it? It's like, saying, Hey, if you did go and look, we will go from template to CSS. This is what you could do. So, so I think it's my team. We don't have the skill set really to understand, like, going from pure template to something custom, what would be the benefits, etc. So a lot of that is set, but they're also like, we do have a lot of different creatives that we could start to build into in here, including video. But again, it's getting an expert to help guide us. So right,
are you looking for guidance on just UI or also looking at UX? So depending on where the client is coming from, what does that flow look like? Or is it just, mostly just making it look nicer.
Phase one is, phase one is definitely UI make it look nicer, and then, as we see traffic, it's working on UX, for sure, because there's probably a million different things we're missing, and probably a lot of devices we're not, you know, factoring into it, right?
Okay, okay, makes sense. All right, so I'm good on time, but just want to be mindful of your time. Are you good for the 10 more minutes?
Yeah, yeah, absolutely, yeah. Okay.
So what are the key features and pages you need beyond the standard Shopify store? Yeah.
So really, honestly, it's like the so, So in an ideal world, the number one priority would be, and this is a UI is actually doing a pop out, I think it's the shelf, the popover UI, if that's possible, within the within the template. And so to give you a sense, so that's how our current checkout is. It's fine. It's not amazing, versus the to cart and the pop out. So I don't know if that's a template or CSS job, so yeah, the pop out, yeah, for the pop up, unless you think that's like a bad UX experience.
Let me take a closer look at it.
Yeah, take this goes to another page. So then I do my I do that there. And, you know, whatever about the profile information it, you know, it's just been that, well, this is the same thing. So, but again, maybe that's where you put your UX hat on and say, Look, you know, you're maybe adding a click, so don't even bother there. And then the second priority, and this may seem really simple, but the context is it's, you know, trying to look for folks that we can work with long term to help build us out this out really properly. And then the second is, like, things like, you know, like, so right here, just having an Add to Cart functionality put there, and then potentially under any UI, UX, with how we show some of the merchandise so they be the two bare minimum pieces. The third, and I think based off your experiences, just doing a general, if you kind of understand the direction, doing an audit
 and saying, Look, you know, this is a pretty cheap and cheerful MVP, yeah, giving some sort of either light recommendation, here was what it go forward would potentially look like for a client of your scale. And so we're, obviously, we're happy to work contractor. We are candidly looking the New Year at full time roles, etc, etc, with this. But having your recommendations around look, if you want to be serious, here's what I would recommend. Here's what the build out would look like. Does that make sense? Christopher's because that sense. It makes a lot of sense.
Very interesting. Okay, thanks for walking me through that. Do you have any reference sites or brands that you love,
yeah, yeah, okay, give you. This is one, and I'll send I'll send those to you. The other one is very similar, actually, Overland.
Could you share in the chat? Yes,
the upper chat, because I don't see A chat here. Oh yeah, sorry, that's one I
Owen, perfect, okay.
All right, great, all right, so you already gave me the timeline.
What does your decision and feedback process look like would I be, if everything works out and we're working together, would I be speaking with you, and how long would it take to get
Yeah, very so a, I mean, like, I can really love your resume, your site, stood at head and shoulders above everybody we've we looked at and we talked a few other folks and Upwork. So I think process wise, you know, sign off on a small piece of work. Let's call it like is it 15 to 20 hours? I'm not sure if that makes sense. I was looking at some of your previous jobs, and it was in that 1520 hour job, and I feel maybe we fall into that, but, you know, you tell me, and then it'll be myself. And then I they, one of my designers and one of my product owners would just, you know, we jump on. And so I, you do the first set of changes and and jump on, and we could, you know, do a quick working session. Is there any additional change requests, which, you know, there always is, but,
 you know, go from there, and then I think what will be interesting outside of that, then is your set of recommendations based off the ones I've sent that will be very interesting for our wider team to go through. So that'd be good. And look, if you kind of do more research on publishers, clearinghouse and the company, etc, and it's very much an older workforce. And so we're, you know, that's where we're jumping into Upwork instead of just hiring direct right now. So we're trying to, you know, get some folks from the outside and just see how it goes.
Yeah, no, that makes a lot of sense. Looks fascinating. So two more questions, one of them we've answered already, where your traffic comes from? You said emails usually in terms of tools. That's later on. So tools for measurement, like Hotjar and Mixpanel, we don't need any of that at this time.
We actually have Mixpanel, but we don't, yeah, we don't need to use this. And then when I went main side, it's all GA and things like that. Great.
No, this is I, I find this interesting. So in terms of next steps, it sounds like you're not sure what you think. So usually I go back, you know, after our conversation, and I submit a proposal, not sure how you like to proceed with it. I would love to take some time and go through your website, get a better idea and feel of what you're trying to achieve. I have some idea, but I would love to take some more time take a closer look at it.
Yeah. Do you want me to do an access this one's like, you know, it's not it's not open, but I could give you viewer access, if you'd like, yeah, that'd be great. It's very simple. There's literally, like, three pages on it right now.
Okay, this is the email address that I have on I can have a Shopify.
Here's mine. Okay, perfect.
Let me describe it. I might send you emails from my company address, but that's also my address.
Okay, that one works. I
a structured email now,
great, yeah, this is really I look forward to calls, I guess that I find interesting. So Owen, appreciate it. Let me, let me take a closer look. Yep, now I'll get back to you. This Monday work for you.
Monday works whenever you want to. Mean, honestly, Monday works. We're trying to, yeah, Monday, Monday works, but, but you know, if you want to do it earlier, that's, that's definitely good too. We're, we're good to go, Okay, sounds good. All right then, thanks, Chris, have a good take care. See you. Bye.